Introduce the ENSDb Interactive Playground to ENSNode Docs (#2321)
namehash/ensnode: docs/ensnode.io/src/content/docs/docs/integrate/unigraph/interactive-playground.mdx

---
title: ENSDb Interactive Playground

> description: Use an interactive ENSDb playground to query ENS Unigraph from a read-only ENSDb Snapshot.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: Use an interactive ENSDb playground to query the ENS Unigraph from a read-only ENSDb Snapshot.
```

tableOfContents: false
sidebarDocked: true
---

Use an interactive ENSDb playground to query the [ENS Unigraph](/docs/integrate/unigraph/concepts#indexed-data-model) from a read-only [ENSDb Snapshot](/docs/integrate/integration-options/ensdb-cli).

### Get started

1. Click the "_ENSDb Alpha (read-only snapshot)_" button below to connect to a read-only ENSDb Snapshot Server.

>    :::caution[ENS state may be out of date]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   :::caution[This playground hosts a point-in-time snapshot, not a live ENSDb]
```

>    This ENSDb Snapshot Server hosts an [ENSDb instance](/docs/services/ensdb/concepts/database-schemas#ensdb-instance) created from an [ENSDb Snapshot](/docs/integrate/integration-options/ensdb-cli) which was taken at a single point in time from the [ENSNode Alpha hosted instance](/docs/hosted-instances#ensnode-alpha). As a result, this particular ENSDb instance does not reflect the current state of ENS. However, it is still a convenient way to explore the ENS Unigraph data model and run queries without needing to deploy ENSNode in order to access your own ENSDb instance.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   This interactive playground hosts a [point-in-time snapshot](/docs/integrate/integration-options/ensdb-cli) of an [ENSDb instance](/docs/services/ensdb/concepts/database-schemas#ensdb-instance), and does not expose a live ENSDb with the current state of ENS. However, it is still a convenient way to explore the ENS Unigraph data model and run some test queries without needing to deploy ENSNode in order to access your own live ENSDb instance.
   
   This snapshot was taken at a single point in time from the [ENSNode Alpha `v1.16.0` hosted instance](/docs/hosted-instances#ensnode-alpha).
```

Reviewer: @tk-o Could you please also include in the last sentence here the specific ENSNode version this snapshot was generated from? Thanks

   :::

2. Browse tables in the [ENSDb Writer Schema](/docs/services/ensdb/concepts/database-schemas#ensdb-writer-schema) (named as `alpha` in this example ENSDb instance) and the [ENSNode Schema](/docs/services/ensdb/concepts/database-schemas#ensnode-schema) (always named as `ensnode`).

> 3. Use "_SQL Console_" to run queries against the ENS Unigraph data model.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Use the "_SQL Console_" to explore possible queries against the ENS Unigraph data model.
```

4. Use "_Schema_" to view the schema of each table, including columns and indexes.

:::caution[Interactive Playground Performance]

The interactive playground is powered by a [Drizzle Gateway](https://gateway.drizzle.team/) instance. Occasional slow query performance is a known limitation of Drizzle Gateway and is not indicative of an issue with ENSNode or the underlying ENSDb instance. If you experience this, please try again shortly.

:::

> <iframe title="ENSDb Interactive Playground" loading="lazy" src="https://ensdb-playground.ensnode.io/" width="100%" height="100%" style="min-height: 800px;" />

Author: This is an iframe to an internal service.

> <iframe title="ENSDb Interactive Playground" loading="lazy" src="https://ensdb-playground.ensnode.io/" width="100%" height="100%" style="min-height: 800px;" />

Reviewer: Suggest to also add a "card" to open this interactive playground in a fullscreen view. This would open to https://ensdb-playground.ensnode.io/ in a new tab without any iframe.
